Hey guys, this is Winson and we're going
to take him through an intensive program
where we're starting with one RM testing
of his high bar squat and we're going to
take you through every step of the way.
Check Next thing, what shoes are you
going to do? Barefoot? Barefoot. I got
to do barefoot. I I I got no lifting
shoes, so but
I'm a You got good mobility. Okay. Okay.
Just so that you know, Chinese
weightlifters use weightlifting shoes.
They do, but they also have [__] good
dorsiflexion. I know, but they still use
weightlifting shoes. Why? If they have
good dorsiflexion? Why? To optimize
their position. To make it even better.
You get it? So, it's This is how I see
all high bar squats.
Right? It's like I know you've got the
mobility. Yeah. But it can be even
better with heels. Okay.
>> Why do weightlifters all use it? Every
weightlifter. Lu Xiaojun, pick your
favorite weightlifter.
>> Like you said, my [__] squat you were
even like, "Hey, you can get even higher
on the toes." And I [__] I'm already
like
>> You want to be better? Let's Let's play
around. Let's play around. Yeah.
So, high bar squat? Yeah, let's see how
you go.
Show me your squat. So, this is how I
start with everything. It's just like I
set the hands up before I get
underneath, always. And the rule is
hands as close as shoulder mobility
allows. Okay. You know, so I when I see
someone like you who just said how
mobile they are, right? I look at it and
I'm like, why would you go that wide
then?
>> Even for even for a high bar squat?
Yeah, hands as close as shoulder
mobility allows. Okay. Well, let's see.
Maybe that's too close. I don't know.
There? Yeah.
Sure.
Let's see.
Just pump out eight reps. Pump out eight
reps.
Two.
Three.
How's that look? It can be optimized.
Okay. Like it's a good squat, but it's
like what are we trying to achieve? You
know, with super accumulation the
objective is
it it can have multiple objectives.
One objective could be to build
quadriceps. One objective could be to
refine the hell out of the squat
pattern.
You know what I mean? I want both.
So, the way that I do it is like, why
wouldn't you want to squat like a
weightlifter? That's not how a
weightlifter squats.
Okay. A weightlifter doesn't look down
and and have that have this posture that
you're doing. That's That was you. It's
not a bad squat. It's a nice squat, but
that is not what a weightlifter looks
like. A weightlifter is upright here.
Yeah.
Their torso is a lot more vertical.
Okay. Okay. So, this is why I just add a
little bit of weight before I change the
technique. Um but let's let's have a
look at a few things. And if it takes me
lending you some shoes, would you be
open to that? Yeah.
Okay, good.
>> Some risers?
Yeah.
Now, I'm a true weightlifter now.
Hey?
True weightlifter now.
>> Yeah.
Okay. So, that bar position, I would
consider that a mid bar, but I don't
mind that. I like that.
>> Okay. Okay. So, a high bar. So, come
even higher. Even higher? That's That's
It's still on the Like I can see that
now. It's still on the meat of the
trapezius, but that's going to allow you
to be more vertical. If you have the
mobility to achieve that position,
good. Well, that's high. That is That's
a high bar. Oh, sh
Look straight ahead. Yeah. Here's the
next thing is that stance is quite
close. It's going to be hard And the way
that your knees are going forward like
that, you may not have the room for your
pelvis to achieve the right position.
Okay. So, it's causing a lot of forward
torso lean. Stand how you want to stand.
So, what happens at the bottom is just
you have you have no choice. The knees
come out cuz your pelvis won't achieve
that bottom position with your legs
going straight. It just goes boom as
soon as you get to the bottom.
So, so don't let it push you there.
Start there. So, set up with Not Not
toes out that much. Stand with a
slightly wider stance. Okay. Good. Good
now.
Bring your toes in a little bit. Yeah.
Good. Good. Screw the feet into the
floor so your knees from standing there
pointing slightly outwards and it's
going to direct your knees outwards.
That's where they're going to finish in
the bottom position.
And then you look
>> ahead. The body follows the eyes.
Beautiful. So you've got an open hip
position
and it's a much nicer bottom position as
well. Mhm. Keep going. Keep going. Five
more reps.
Just to warm up that position. Now don't
change your eye position. Keep looking
at the same spot. It's a beautiful squat
but I it can be optimized. Like I can
see posterior tilt. Up up up up up. I
can see posterior tilt
in your pelvis.
Still? That feels better. It is better
but it's better for that objective of
It's like
Think of weightlifters. They're not
trying to just build quads. They're
trying to optimize the position for
their clean and jerk and snatch. Yeah.
So they don't really care about I mean
I'm sure they like how their quads end
up looking cuz they look [__] so
good.
But that's secondary. Their main goal is
a big clean and jerk and snatch. Yeah.
But as a result of the way that they
position their bodies, which is upright
torso, ass to grass, maximum knee bend,
their quads look incredible. Yeah.
Do you get it? So it's like just by
default that's the best way to position
your body to maximize quad growth. Yeah.
Yeah. When you look down and your your
hips come back further, that's using
more hips and less quads.
>> Yeah.
When you're more upright and the knees
come forward more, that's more quads and
less hips.
>> Mhm.
So like if I'm if I'm in that position,
am I extended through the lumbar or is
it I'm It's It's It's neutral stacked.
Yeah. It's neutral stacked. Okay.
>> Now
the thing is there's different bracing
strategies. Yeah. So the bracing
strategy of a weightlifter is different
to a bracing strategy of a powerlifter.
The bracing strategy of a powerlifter is
kind of like, you know, ribs down, yeah,
boom, and and hip hinge and allow the
hips to come back.
Right? So, that's the bracing strategy
of a powerlifter. The bracing strategy
of a weightlifter, I can't really do
with my shitty mobility.
Is is anteriorly tilted, upright, knees
forward. Yeah. That's the bracing
strategy of a weightlifter. That's how a
weightlifter looks when they're catching
their clean.
>> Yeah, I'm I'm thinking about like every
time I've seen a weightlifter and
they're like here. Absolutely.
>> That's a really nice position, bro.
Yeah. That's a really nice position.
>> Told you I was built like a Chinese
weightlifter. Yeah. Who'd have thought?
Who'd have thought?
Okay, so
do that.
>> So, that's what I'm looking for. I'm
looking for super
>> now, so you understand that position.
You just demonstrated it. Do that with
this on your back. Okay. Okay?
That's way higher than I
Good. Now, squeeze your elbows back.
Back. Good. Yes, that's going to engage
those upper back muscles. Look straight
ahead. Good.
It's very nice. It's very nice.
Elbows back, bro. Good.
That's the position. I want to see this.
Keep those elbows back. That's engaged
upper back.
Go deeper.
Okay, so objectively, there is posterior
pelvic tilt.
Okay, so Still? Yeah, bro. I know you've
got great mobility. You've got a
beautiful squat, but there was posterior
tilt.
So,
try with this.
Yeah. Try with this.
Never use these.
It'll be a lovely addition for you.
I bought all these supplements.
I bought rises.
So, the question you just asked me is
would I use a belt for this? Mhm. Um
I've done beltless and I've done belted.
And I prefer belted. Belted?
>> But you can do the whole thing beltless.
It teaches you to be really good at
beltless squats. Yeah.
>> So for me it was just like I just wanted
the best results possible, use a
freaking belt.
Okay.
Do you have a belt? No.
Well then don't worry about it.
>> I can buy a belt.
>> Yeah, I mean you don't have to, that's
the thing. With all training it's like
it's not compulsory. We can do this one
with no belt. You'll get a incredible
result.
And then Dmitry Klokov, one of the best
weightlifters ever,
doesn't touch a belt. He doesn't
He doesn't touch a belt. Touch wood.
Okay. Let's go. Let's do the same thing
but now you've got shoes. So for the
first rep it'll feel slightly different
so I'm going to get you to do it a
little bit slower and pause at the
bottom. Okay, elbows back and down. So
the brace is elbows back, that's mid
back and then shoulder girdle down.
Increase the distance between the
shoulders and the ears. It's not elbows
pointing downwards. Yeah. Good.
Beautiful.
Ooh, shoes.
Good. So we're Yeah, so open hip
position, upright.
Okay.
Yeah, good.
Keep those elbows back.
Good.
Eyes straight ahead. Eyes straight
ahead. Look straight ahead. Elbows back.
Let's try and stand just a touch wider.
Just a touch. Good. Good.
Open those hips.
Pause in the bottom position. Allow
those knees to come forward, like push
them forward.
Good. Yeah, good. And up. Ooh.
Good. And again. And again. Let's just
warm this position up.
Two more reps. Two more reps. Pause at
the bottom.
One more. One more.
Now you're looking like a weightlifter,
brother.
Okay.
This elbow position and head down,
that's not what weightlifters do. Okay.
Upright.
Look straight ahead. The body follows
the eyes. If you want a vertical torso,
look straight ahead. Even powerlifters
who will have more torso lean, look
ahead. Right.
>> Not because they they want to be
upright, but because of balance. Yeah.
>> But weightlifters especially
Bro, they are and a lot of weightlifters
are here,
which I don't recommend.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> In my head of the perfect high bar
squat, I imagine Lu Xiaojun. Yeah.
>> I imagine a Chinese weightlifter like
Chinese have the perfect proportions.
It's not just the hip structure, which
is shallower hip socket to allow for
more mobility, it's also a shorter femur
and a longer torso.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. And that's the perfect
proportions for a squat. So, in my head
of a perfect high bar squat, that's what
I'm imagining. That bottom position.
I'll tell you what else I have. Look
straight ahead, elbows back, shoulders
down. Boom. Bottom position, ass to
grass, hamstrings press against the
calf. Very similar to what you were just
doing.
>> Yeah, right. Okay? But let's get all of
those.
Okay.
>> Okay?
>> This is more more than I've squatted
like ever. What's that?
This is more than I've ever squatted
like as in volume. Yeah. So, this is
going to be
Bro, what what you you
>> myself into. It it would be good like,
you know,
it'd be cool to see some of your older
squats
because I'll tell you right now, you're
going to come out of this a different
squatter. Yeah. My old squats, yeah, you
don't want to see.
We can put We'll probably put it on the
screen. Yeah. We'll we'll We'll probably
use that as the before because a lot of
times when I'm working with people, it's
just I don't want to see you go max out
with your old style and then now try to
max out with your new style. I saw all I
needed to see on an empty bar. Yeah,
right.
>> and I've changed you straight away. So,
we haven't given enough opportunity, but
it'll be nice to see your old squats
on a separate video.
This whole program, the way that you're
going to do it the first time, Charles
Poliquin recommends a 4-second eccentric
tempo.
Let's just start with that. This is
going to refine your bar path. Yeah.
Okay? This is not about the eccentric
tempo, the way that he prescribes it is
all about hypertrophy. That's been
debunked. Not time under tension.
It's not about the time under tension.
For me, I it's about teaching how to
hold tension under load. Okay. That's
what I love about this tempo. It's going
to refine the hell out of your bar path.
>> Yeah. Let's just do it go controlled.
So, don't I'm not going to get the timer
out and do four strict seconds. But, how
many reps?
Uh for this warm-up set, let's just keep
on going like four reps.
Okay. Wrap your thumb around the bar.
Good. Elbows back and shoulders down.
Like that with I look at you and it's
like, "Oh, how nice." This is like a
weightlifter, brother. Uh go slightly
wider stance, just slightly wider
stance. It's going to allow more room
for your pelvis to achieve that
beautiful bottom position. Look straight
ahead.
Elbows back.
Sit.
Now, come down slower. Control.
Control. Elbows back.
And drive.
Nice.
>> Ooh.
So, we're going to accelerate in and out
of the hole. So, you go slow for the
majority of the lift. The bottom 10% is
a little dip and drive.
And drive. Pop.
Look straight ahead. Don't change that
gaze. Look straight ahead. Big breath.
Control.
Speed up and hit.
Ah, one more. Big breath. Control.
Speed up and hit. Nice and rack. Good.
It's not just about hamstrings on calf.
It's like end position is kind of like
maintaining the neutral spine. Okay.
So, I want you to bounce off the end
stretch of your muscles. Yeah, okay.
You know at the joint. That's how we
maximize tension. I don't want you to
sit here and just hit hamstrings and
calves if it means your your tail has to
tuck under to achieve that position.
That's not the right position. It's
maximizing tension. So, you should feel
tension like quads obviously cuz it's
maximal knee bend, but also adductor.
You should feel a stretch kind of around
here around your hips in that bottom
position and that's what you want to be
bouncing off. It's one of the strongest
extensors of your hips.
>> Yeah. Okay, so it's like what are the
hip extensors? Yeah, glutes. People
think it's just glutes, but yeah, glutes
and adductors. They're some of the
biggest ones that are going to
contribute to this strong squat. Okay.
Okay, now
>> What is it What does that actually feel
like if I'm like if I hold or I look for
that? You'll You'll feel tension here.
Okay.
With a low bar squat you feel it a
little bit better. And for someone as
mobile as you with a high bar squat you
probably won't feel it as much, but
it'll still be there. Okay. It'll still
be there. All right. And these are the
things you're going to make yourself
more aware of through this program.
Yeah.
Now, what I want to do like I'm looking
at everything about you doing this and
I'm saying I want to refine this. Like
this is the first time I've done squats
with you. I don't want to just sit there
and just go just blanket statement
4-second eccentric. I want a beautiful
squat out of you. Okay. Like I I can see
we're going to get so many gains by
disregarding the tempo and optimizing
your tempo. Okay. So, what do I mean by
disregarding 4-second eccentric and
optimizing your tempo? What I believe to
be the optimal tempo for a squat. Take
this to the bank. Our camera's over
here. Start slow, gradually accelerate
in out of the hole. Yeah. Start slow,
gradually accelerate in and out of the
hole. Okay.
So, that's what I want you to think.
Let's choose this same weight.
Yeah.
>> Now, let's use everything intentionally.
Where your hands are, don't move them.
Thumb around the bar. None of this thumb
to the line or anything like that.
That's unstable. So, grip it. Yeah.
Good. Grip it. Come under the bar.
Elbows back and shoulders down.
So, the barbell's resting on your
muscles of your upper trapezius. Elbows
back and shoulders down. Yep. Now, when
you unrack it, the way that you are now,
this is an interesting thing, is here
you're like you use hip extension is
pretty weak. I want you to do this.
Piss up a wall for the unrack and just
use your quads. So, piss up a wall.
That's a stronger unrack. Do you see
that?
So, everything again? Yep. So, back to
the bar and stand.
>> wider. Great.
>> There? Good. Elbows back, shoulder
blades down. Feet directly under the
bar. Now, piss up a wall, so hips right
underneath. Bring your hips underneath.
So, then There we go. And now, stand.
So, it's quads to get it up. Good. Now,
three steps to walk it out.
>> Good.
Looking straight ahead.
Elbows back and down.
>> Yep. Big breath. Start slow, gradually
accelerate, speed up, and drive. Wait.
Eyes on one spot. Look straight ahead.
Big breath. Don't change that gaze.
Control, speed up, drive.
Wait.
Big breath.
Control, speed up, drive.
One more.
>> Ooh, that felt good. Big breath.
Control, speed up, drive.
Bring it in.
Now, you look like
Chinese weightlifter.
I feel that adductor. Very good. Very
good. I definitely feel that now.
>> Good.
What do we got? 100? Yeah, I can do 100.
>> Yep. I don't know how much after that,
though. Yeah, exactly.
Thumb around the bar? Thumb around the
bar. Yeah. Let's go uh two reps.
Elbows back. See where you're unrack
-ing? So, we're going to have the feet
underneath. Boom. So, instead of arching
the tail,
>> Yeah. piss up a wall. Yep. Good. And
then, use your quadriceps to stand.
Good.
Elbows back, shoulders down. Big breath
to brace. Start slow, open hips.
Control, speed up, and hit. Wait. Big
breath. Control, start slow, speed up,
and drive. Good. And rack. Nice.
That feels good. Nice. That looks good.
That feels really good.
>> That looked easier than the 80. Yeah.
This is bit by bit. So. Chill. This is
what I like to do with the warm-ups.
Is I'm going to start reducing the
incremental increases up until we get to
somewhere where I feel like we're
getting to that point. A lot of people
say with warm-ups have less warm-up sets
to save energy. Yeah. The way that I say
it is stimulate not annihilate. So, what
I would like you to do is feel 110 for
one rep. Okay. So, we take longer rests
in between each warm-up so it's not
fatiguing. It's stimulating. You get it?
So, we'll do 110. And the objective of
110 is to familiarize yourself with the
position and it won't feel heavy up.
Okay? So, this is how I say like when
I'm teaching a new technique of course.
When you become more advanced No. You'll
be more familiar with it. Yeah. And
those bigger jumps you'll be able to
accept. But because it's a brand new
technique for you, smaller jumps to
refine that movement
>> Yeah. I don't want you to get to the
point where it's bigger jumps where it's
just like perfect technique. We take a
jump too big it's like boom, we break
down technique.
>> Yeah, right, right.
>> I don't want you to go back to
autopilot. That's the whole idea. When
it's a new technique, you end up going
back to autopilot when it's hard. Yeah.
I don't want you going to autopilot. I
need this technique. This is the perfect
technique. Cool. So, autopilot means
going back to your old technique that
you know you can lift whatever weight
with. No, let's ditch that. Yeah. It's
going to be the new technique. And then
are you
we want to go one rep at a time?
>> It's there's no rules to this, but yeah.
The whole idea of one rep at a time is
stimulate not annihilate. You know what
I mean? So, it's like that's not going
to be fatiguing. You're just going to do
110 for one. Cool. So, I'm going to feel
what 110 feels like. Yeah, hopefully.
It's it's just feel. That's what today
is about. It's not a competition. On
competition day, I don't recommend this.
Yeah.
>> On competition day, you're going to have
a ton more practice. Yeah. You know what
I mean? And you're going to know the
numbers. Right now, it's you haven't
even been squatting in your training.
The numbers are unknown. Yeah. So, we're
refining that process. It's different.
Every set, one perfect rep is what we're
aiming for. We're also perfecting that
tempo, which is start slow, gradually
accelerate in and out of the hole.
Elbows back.
Good.
Good and rack. Let's go 120. The bounce
out of the hole. Yeah. Okay, it needs to
look like there's no grind. Yeah. Elbows
back, shoulders down.
Yeah.
Good.
Control.
Control, speed up and hit.
Beautiful and walk it in. Straight,
straight. Good, good.
Very good. Take a seat, have a drink.
Yep.
Looking good.
How did that feel? That feels good.
Knees?
Feels fine. Great. I'm not shifting? No.
Oh, it's beautiful. The wider stance
does help. I always thought that I'd
be in a more narrow stance.
First, if you want to lift the heaviest
weight, the wider your stance, the more
we're bringing on adductors. Adductors
are the some of the strongest muscles in
this combination.
I've never thought about it like that.
Yeah, so like if your objective was I
just want to build quads, bring the
stance in so we're taking adductors out
of it. So, we're maximizing quadriceps.
We're not maximizing quadriceps. I want
quadriceps, but I also want a beautiful,
efficient squat. You are training for a
squat competition. We need to build your
squat strength. What are the squat
muscles? Adductors are part of that
equation.
Okay, so it's not like me saying the
wider the better, so to use more
adductors we go even wider. That's not
what I'm saying either. It's it's a
combination of all of it, but this is
what I would tell you to do if the
objective was purely hypertrophy of
quadriceps. Right. And I'd elevate heels
even further and do a stiletto squat.
That's hypertrophy for quads, taking
every other muscle out of it as much as
possible.
But an efficient squat
slightly wider
Hey Richie.
Slightly wider. It's efficient yeah. And
we want to spread the load across of
across more of our body.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right, within reason. So, you know, when
we get you to comp level, if you're
doing a low bar squat, I'm going to say
I'm going to say let's get rid of those
heels. Right.
Right, because you don't need to go that
deep. Yeah.
>> And I'm going to say to you to push your
hips back further so we can use stronger
muscles. Right now isn't just about
using stronger muscles, it's about using
this to develop quads and using the
snatch grip deadlifts to develop your
posterior chain. It's not just getting
one exercise to do it all. Yeah. Yeah.
>> We got to consider the entire program.
130, one rep.
We're going clean, everything clean. The
moment you start breaking down
technique, that's when we're going to
say, "Okay, cool. Let's back off now."
For me this is a big weight. Great. I'll
be with you. Mhm. Let's do it.
Especially high bar.
Yeah, so
they're good. Elbows back.
>> Yeah. Squeeze that back. That's how we
get maximal rigidity in your upper back.
Good. Keep that there. Yeah. Good.
Good.
Keep looking straight ahead. Squeeze
that back.
Control, speed up, and drive.
Good. Real good.
Real good.
When I'm coming down and then
I like kind of slow down.
What was that? Was that muscle
difference? Um that's where it's getting
hard now. Okay, yeah. You know what I
mean? So it's like sometimes it's not a
matter of hyper analyzing, it's like
it's getting hard now. Yeah. So, you
know, I've got a few processes in my
mind that I'm thinking. Okay. One of
them is, I know you can do 140.
Yeah, I reckon I could if I [__]
screamed.
If I screamed it Let's do this. Let's do
this. Yeah. 135 next.
>> Okay. Okay.
So, for that to go from 130, the way
that you just did, take a seat.
All right? To get a 135, I'm I'm certain
that you're going to do it, and it's
probably going to look similar. And
that's going to give you the confidence
to and me the confidence to decide
should we do 140.
Okay. Right. This is the incremental
jump you're talking about.
>> Yeah.
So, this is going to be taking your
squat to the point where it's like,
here's our true test. So, hey, if I hit
you on a [__] RP 10 now, that wasn't
unintelligent. This small jump wasn't
like, oh, wow, these guys are being so
responsible. Mhm. You got this.
Have a drink. Chill.
You know, rest periods for this, I like
to say, for a squat like this, at these
levels, you know, 4 and 1/2 to 5 minutes
is good.
When you get more towards 180, I'm going
to tell you to rest, you know, 6 to 8
minutes. Okay.
All right? But, right now,
that's not a complete maximal effort.
Okay? 4 and 1/2 minutes 4 and 1/2 to 5
minutes is good.
I'm going to set up my camera so we can
um
have a look.
All right, let's go, bro.
Elbows back. Squeeze them back. Keep
them there. Good.
Squeeze them back.
No good? No difference?
Yeah? No difference to that 130.
And then we go 140. Let's have a look.
Okay. Is it deep enough? Uh let me see.
This is where when I'm standing behind I
That's what I can't see. That's why I
need these extra set of eyes. Yeah, it
was deep enough, bro.
True.
So
there's a few different measurements of
what's deep enough. In a powerlifting
competition, that's the crease of the
hip below the top of the knee.
>> Yeah. Absolutely, that's deep enough.
>> Yeah.
But when we go to weight like in
weightlifting, it's like it's not about
to get depth. It's about [__] I'm going
to go as deep as I can so that I don't
throw have to throw the weight up as
high.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. So that's that's why
weightlifters go so deep. Yeah. But when
it comes to quadriceps development, like
you want the ham Like that's a really
beautiful squat.
>> Mhm.
Objectively, you could go deeper than
that.
>> Yeah, okay.
You know what I mean? But just for today
like that's for me for a test of a
squat, like that's deep enough. That's
hip crease below the top of the knee.
Yeah. So this is good. So 140 today cuz
135 is not a number. Yeah.
Three blue plates is a number, okay?
Yeah, that feel good? That looked great.
Well, let's We just pause it here. Let's
have a look at what the squat looks
like.
Bro, beautiful.
>> That That looks better than I thought it
would
in my head. I thought it would be itchy.
>> It looks great. And 140 is going to look
maybe a touch lower than that. Okay.
Which is still not a tenner. I don't
think that'll be a ten RPE.
Right? But it'll be enough for today to
say, "Okay, you know, this is a pretty
good um start point for super
accumulation.
Uh and we will see where we get to after
that." And then the super accumulation
because I'm doing so much volume. Yeah.
Um it'll be lo- lighter load so then I
can go deeper knee flexion.
Way deeper knee flexion.
>> Yeah.
You're You're just going to see that you
by default you'll go ass to grass and
it'll just be comfortable. Right. Yeah.
That's the beauty of this much volume.
Right? You know, 30 sets of squats in a
week. Right, because because I'll just
be like it's so much that I Yeah, you're
going to rely on that bounce where
you're just slamming your hamstrings on
your calves. Yeah, right. But you'll be
able to maintain like
People think that going deeper is always
weaker. No, when you go deeper but
that's where you like it's a skill that
you develop to learn how to take
yourself to that end stretch to bounce
off that end stretch. Right. And there's
strength in that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> If you cut it short, you're eliminating
that stretch reflex. It's just sinking
into me
how hard this program's going to be.
You'll be fine. Like I'm like I
I've not like really thought about it.
I'm just like, "Yeah, [__] yeah. That
sounds awesome." Yeah. But now I'm
thinking like
When you treat it like a job, Yeah.
you'll do it. No, I'll do it.
>> Yeah. Um I just I just want to lock the
[__] in. I'm going to need to lock the
[__] in is what I mean. Yeah.
Yeah, but mostly quit two days in. Did
you?
Sure. You got You got three sessions in.
Yeah.
Like I said, he he works here, bro. I
[__] get my whip out. Musti, brother,
I need you here, man. You know what I
mean? Yeah. Whereas
when it's yours, Musti, it's because you
you train at 2:00 a.m. in the morning.
>> Yeah, that's his problem.
That's his [__] That's his [__]
problem. Okay.
We're on, brother. This is our top set.
Let's [__] work.
Give me that technique. That's what's
going to allow you to lift it easily.
That technique. Elbows back up.
Good.
Squeeze that back.
Control. speed up and hit. Up.
Woah, that was a bit deeper that time.
No, I got to do that again. I lost that
line. Yeah, yeah.
Hey, all right.
I just lost focus, that's all.
Yeah.
You know, there's more to it. There's
more to it. I'll show you what more to
it is.
Look at this, we're having a good old
[__] chat, aren't we? We're having a
good old [__] chat. You don't do that
on competition.
Well, that's how you look like here
before you about to go in. Yeah, we're
laughing away because Musty told a nice
joke and you know what I mean? That's
not how you approach a max. Let's sit
down. Just sit down. No talking. This is
how you approach a max.
You sit down and you focus on the task
at hand, okay? We're going to take I'm
going to give you it's been probably
about a minute or so. We're going to
take another 4 minutes and we're going
to come in and do that again. And you're
going to focus this time, okay? This is
kind of like teaching your body how to
switch the hell on, bro.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I don't know why.
I know why because we got the cameras
out, we're making a YouTube video. I've
been there, done that, you know?
And I've had to learn the techniques on
how to create videos. When you look at
that 135, can you do 140? Of course you
can. You know what I mean? Of course you
can.
I was locked in for the 135. Hell yeah.
Yeah. Okay, but then we just
That was not your fault. That was our
fault.
Here's the rule with
when I'm working with athletes,
especially in competition.
And a lot of athletes that I work with,
they get sidetracked and it's fair
enough, especially with social media.
They go back and they doom scroll in
between sets and they come back. No, we
take that away. A lot of the times with
my athletes, it's like, "Good, put
everything away. You sit down and you
just get your energy back. You drop your
heart rate." This is a tech This is what
I teach my lifters. Drop your heart
rate, relax, focus. Okay? And then
So, that means I don't want you to sit
here getting psyched up for the entire
time, either. Right? Drop the heart
rate, because getting psyched up from
now, like 5 minutes of getting psyched
up, that's damn well fatiguing.
Relax, drop your heart rate, but still
stay focused on the task at hand. Then
when it's time to go, then we switch on.
That state of heightened arousal kind of
is fatiguing, but it does help. But, it
only lasts, I would say, you know,
anywhere between like 30 seconds to a
minute. So, for me in competition, I try
and stay calm until they say So, in a
powerlifting competition, they'll
typically say, "Bar loaded for Sebastian
Arab."
The moment they say that, that's when
it's time to switch on. I'm just sitting
here relaxed in the meantime. I'll tell
you how else I see it. Winston, you know
how I see it? Head up, posture, legs
straight. There. So, my quadriceps are
unloaded, my posture I'm not sitting in
a flex position, my posture is I'm
minimum I'm stacked. I'm minimizing This
is to me going real far with it, but
hey,
it works. Okay? So, that's the position
that I relax in. Relax your arms, relax
everything, drop your heart rate, almost
meditate, right? And then when it's time
to go, that's when we switch on. And
then from here, follow me. This is what
I do. I'm relaxed. Now, bang. The moment
I put my eyes on that barbell, that's
when it's time to switch on. And that's
when I, you know, I don't want to sit
there and say I get aggressive, but I
get, you know, heightened arousal. Some
people are going to headbutt the bar and
scream and all that, not me. I've done
all that, it didn't work for me. This is
when I'm focused. So, I'm relaxed up
until the moment I
look at the bar. Now, it's time to go,
and I've And from here, I've accepted
that I'm getting this lift. Right? So,
that's the mindset. So, a lot of people
also come in and they'll unrack and say,
"Ooh, this is heavy. I wonder if I can
get it. No, do not think that. We think
that right here. You look at it and you
go, "This is [__] heavy. Am I going
to do it? Yeah, I'm going to [__] do
it. Done." Bang. And now you have no
choice. You're [__] locked in. We're
getting it. Come underneath. Follow the
process. Boom.
All right, we're on.
Big focus, brother. Come on.
Big focus.
Elbows back. Squeeze that back hard.
Massive breath. Strong and right.
Take your time. Let the bar settle.
Strong back. LET'S GO.
CONTROL. DRIVE. DRIVE. DRIVE. DRIVE.
DRIVE. YEAH.
THAT'S HOW, BROTHER. That's how.
Ooh. Nice work. All right.
Different mindset, huh? Good on you,
man.
All right, let's have a look at that.
Let's have a look at that. The focus.
No more laughing. It's game time,
brother. It's game time, brother.
Beautiful depth. [__] grind. Cool.
Yeah, man. All right, good.
So, while we're here
Okay, so 144. So, here's some
calculations. You should be able to do
for five reps. That's That's That looked
like a pretty much limit. That's like
9.9 RPE. Yeah.
That's your one RM. That's a true one
RM. Yeah.
Um 0.84 * 140 = So, 117. Tip
Technically, 117 is what your five RM
should be based on that. Okay. 117.6.
Right? So, therefore, starting on 115
for 5 by 5 is probably too heavy. Right.
I would say a more accurate start point
is kind of like 112-ish.
Okay. Yeah, yeah.
>> All right. So, you got
>> This is five sets.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Five sets. 112
115, 117, and then 120, 122, 1 finish on
125 for 5 by 5.
Yeah. Okay.
>> Okay. So, that's kind of like our
realistic numbers. All right. Next up,
done with squats.
What about the front squats? No. I'm
going to calculate 85% of that.
Okay? So, that's how we do that. Can't
wait. He's just smashed himself. So, to
go and warm up and do front squats now,
we're not going to get an accurate
number. Winston, where do we find you on
social media?
>> Winston Lam with double N, double M.
On Instagram.
>> we're going to write it in the comment
section below.
Give him a follow.